# SSH Client config

> Create a SSH client configuration on your host in such a way that you can easily connect over SSH to all machines of the network. Use a jump / bastion host if necessary. While testing you can use the credentials of vagrant but refer to the theory for more suitable methods. Document properly how you implemented this, make sure you are able to explain how everything works. What files are transferred to what machines? Ask yourself is this is the most secure method and be very critical!
> 

<aside>
🖊️ the companyrouter will be configured as my ssh jump host

</aside>

I decided to go for client initiated jumps. Therefore I need to copy my host ssh-key to every machine on the internal network.

### Companyrouter

1. add a jump user to company `useradd -s /usr/sbin/nologin jump`
2. edit sshd_config
    
    ```powershell
    PubKeyAuthentication yes
    PasswordAuthentication no
    PermitRootLogin no
    
    Match User jump
    		PermitTTY no
    		X11Forwarding no
    		PermitTunnel no
    		GatewayPorts no
    		ForceCommand /usr/sbin/nologin
    ```
    
3. add host ssh id to jump user
    
    ```bash
    # cp ~/.ssh/authorized_keys /home/jump/.ssh/
    # chown -R jump:jump /home/jump/.ssh
    ```
    
4. Test jump connection from host to internal server
`ssh -J jump@companyrouter vagrant@172.30.20.10`
    - should only prompt for password for internal server - check.

### Web & Database

1. Login to the server with the vagrant user
2. Create a new user `sudo useradd -m oskar -s /bin/bash`
3. `sudo mkdir /home/oskar/.ssh && sudo chown -R oskar:oskar .ssh` 
4. copy host key to new user `echo "ssh-ed..." > /home/oskar/.ssh/authorized_keys`
5. test client initiated jump `ssh -J jump@companyrouter oskar@172.30.20.10`
6. edit sshd_config:
    
    ```bash
    PubKeyAuthentication yes
    # PasswordAuthentication no # not used for vagrant backup user
    PermitRootLogin no
    ```
    

************seperate user `oskar` also created the same way on companyrouter**

### SSH Client Config

```bash
# backup
Host companyrouter
        HostName 192.168.100.253
        User oskar

Host bastion-host
        HostName 192.168.100.253
        User jump

Host web
        HostName 172.30.20.10
        ProxyJump bastion-host
				User oskar

Host database
        HostName 172.30.0.15
        ProxyJump bastion-host
				User oskar

Host dc
        HostName 172.30.0.4
        ProxyJump bastion-host
        User walt
```

### Permit new users to run sudo without password

> This is for sure not the best security practice, but I configured it for the convenience in this lab
> 
1. Edit the sudoers file `sudo visudo` and uncomment the line that says “allow users in group wheel to use sudo without a password”
2. add user to the sudoers `sudo usermod -aG wheel oskar`

************************Alternative:************************

- add file named as the user to `/etc/sudoers.d/<username>`
- Content: `username     ALL=(ALL)     NOPASSWD: ALL`

## Resources

- SSH Client config examples: https://linuxize.com/post/using-the-ssh-config-file/
- Proxy/Bastion host: https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/ssh-proxy-bastion-proxyjump and/or https://goteleport.com/blog/ssh-bastion-host/
- (Recap, assumed knowledge from previous courses) important ssh-files: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9dhQIa8fAXU
- Video-format: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KIeBC7NIzj4